# Introduction
 
When mentioning date pickers, people might think about the `DatePicker` from component libraries, however, `DatePicker` is usually a combination of `Input` and `Calendar`. Although this suits most form scenarios, what if you only want to display a `Calendar`? `vue-day-calendar` is created to solve this problem.

## ✨ Main features
-  Select days, ranges or whatever
-  Localizable into any language
-  Easy to style and customize,support `tailwindcsss` 和 `unocss`
-  Using [`dayjs`](https://dayjs.gitee.io/en) as the date library
-  A calendar component focused on date selection


## VS Vue datepicker
Before `vue-day-calendar`, I used [`vue-datepicker`](https://vue3datepicker.com/), which is an outstanding component library with lots of out-of-the-box features. It also supports displaying in `Calendar` mode, but if you only use the `Calendar` mode, I feel it's too massive and not pure enough, lacking flexibility. Thus, `vue-day-calendar` was born, keeping the purity and uninhibited nature of a `Calendar` component.

Actually, I still recommend that you use [`vue-datepicker`](https://vue3datepicker.com/). Relatively speaking, it is more comprehensive and feature-rich, the top choice for those who prefer convenience.

## VS React DayPicker
`React` has a rich component ecosystem, and the inspiration for `vue-day-calendar` comes from [`React DayPicker`](https://react-day-picker.js.org/). It has a simple and durable design appearance and highly customizable styles. Each component inside can be customized, which gives users a high degree of playfulness. As such, `vue-day-calendar` has borrowed a lot of ideas.

## Q & A
### Why are the formats of `v-model` and `month` string types?

First of all, why restrict the format? It is actually to support two-way binding. Imagine if the default value is passed as a `Date` type, but the result is returned in `YYYY-MM-DD` or `dayjs` format. The experience would be poor. Therefore, the format is designed to be easy to understand and straightforward.

- The format of `v-model` is `YYYY-MM-DD`.
- The format of `month` is `YYYY-MM`.


### Why does `vue-day-calendar` look like it has no styles?
When using a component library, it is inevitable that you need to modify the styles. Whether a component looks good or has many special effects, I believe everyone has experienced the pain of trying to modify styles. Ultimately, it is because of high coupling.

Everyone has different aesthetics. Instead of fancy styles, it is better to beautify based on the basic styles as much as possible. The `classes` attribute can be applied to each DOM node, ensuring maximum flexibility in design.

## The end
If you like this component, please give me a `star`, it is the biggest encouragement for me.  
If you have any questions while using it, feel free to raise an `Issue`, I will respond as soon as possible.  
If you have better ideas or feel that the documentation is not clear, feel free to submit a `PR`, I will merge it as soon as possible.
